---
layout: page
title: Post Notification
navigation: 5
---

## Post-notification for the Main Tracks

* Around the time of notifications for the main tracks (Research / Resources / In-Use), be sure to encourage the chairs to advertise upcoming submission opportunities at the conference, such as Poster & Demo, Workshop, and Industry submissions. Poster & Demo Track may sometimes allow posters & demos that complement accept main track papers to be submitted, so it can be good to advertise that in notifications.  
* Around the time of notifications (or even before), also check with your Proceedings Chairs when the deadline would be to have the proceedings ready. If still publishing with Springer, the dates are quite strict, and there are a lot of details to take care of, particularly the Preface, whose preparation you would typically lead as General Chair (Track Chairs can be delegated a paragraph on their track). The preface will typically include acceptance rates, submissions, etc., which should be easy to get, but be aware that typically the preface also includes information about sponsors, main track PCs (who ideally should have had a chance to check their name/affiliation), and in the proceedings, it is typical to include a title and abstract for each keynote.  
  * **TIP**: Again, just to emphasise, there are a lot of details to look into for the proceedings, so be aware in advance of the date, and work towards that, to ensure papers are available for the conference.  
  * **TIP**: SWSA has an agreement with Springer whereby (1) preprints of papers can be published on the conference website; (2) the official proceedings papers are available for up to two weeks after the conference.  
* Shortly (before or) after notifications is a good time to start to coordinate more closely with the Local Chairs, and ensure that the registration system is up and running, the registration prices look okay, and the planning with the venue is moving forward. They should have a process prepared to generate invitation letters for visas, as many attendees will require them; ideally, these are automatically generated upon registering. Also you need to finalise with them details regarding complementary registrations for OC, and try to figure out from the OC who is going. It is also recommendable to check through venue details with them. Tricky details to check with them include registration pricing and discounts, planning rooms for workshops/tutorials, planning the space for the poster & demo session, what goes on the registration badges, student volunteers, the gala event (alcohol and dancing are expected insofar as possible\!), the timing of coffee breaks, how presenters will connect/show slides, how many microphones there will be (for large sessions, four per room is good: one for the speaker, one for the chair, one for for current question, one for next question, but the chair can also manage without one), vegetarian/vegan food (make sure there’s enough as carnivores eat that food too\!), other dietary restrictions, etc. They should also provide travel and hotel suggestions for attendees on the website.  
* During this time, you may also be contacted by Videolectures (which SWSA tends to prefer) regarding recordings, flights, etc., which hopefully has been budgeted in by the Local Chairs. This may require negotiation in terms of number of days, how many parallel sessions to record, how many people will visit, etc. (Aim to record at least Main Track presentations, Keynotes and Panel.) Do be sure to negotiate, as they may request several days before / after the conference, lots of people, etc.  
* A couple of weeks after notifications (when the Main Track chairs have had a bit of time to breathe) is a good time to start to think about the overall schedule, which you will need to coordinate. This includes all five days. This requires a lot of coordination between Local Chairs and Track Chairs, so better to start early. Also attendees will ask you for this to plan their travel, so try to advance with this as soon as you can. From the Local Chairs, you’ll need to check constraints for rooms, coffee breaks, lunches, P\&D session, gala, etc. Then you need to work with the DC/W\&T Chairs and Local Chairs to figure out room assignments for the first two days. Then figure out keynotes, panel, P\&D session, town hall (typically penultimate day), etc., as well as slots for challenges, industry and main tracks. Finally you will need to coordinate across the main tracks to group by topic and assign slots (avoiding two or more similar topics in parallel).  
  * **TIP**: This is also a good time to ask at least the Main Track chairs to start to think about award candidates. These presentations should not be scheduled in the session before the closing / awards ceremony to give time for deliberation.  
  * **TIP**: Coordinate with SWSA regarding any awards they announce, including dissertation and test-of-time award. These people need to be invited with enough time to plan travel.  
  * **TIP**: I suggest to try to keep the same timeslots and session durations each day so the “rhythm” for attendees is predictable, e.g., 1.5 hour sessions followed by a coffee or lunch break. Some exceptions are okay, but hopefully can be kept to a minimum.  
* Around the time of Main Track / DC notifications, be sure to check in on your Student Travel Grant chairs to see how things are going. The first call should be out to coincide with these notifications. (In fact, even better if the first call is out prior to submissions to let people know there are funds available if accepted.)
