---
layout: page
title: Preparing CFP
navigation: 4
---

## Preparing calls and submissions

* A next priority is to get your submissions system set-up. If going for EasyChair, you should aim for an Executive license for around 500 submissions (covering all tracks, but not workshop papers). This will cost in the order of EUR 2000-3000 (as of 2024). You can then ask last year’s General Chair for configuration. (If not going to EasyChair, this is left as an exercise for the reader.) In terms of non-trivial tips for EasyChair:  
  * **TIP**: In the superchair configuration, there are settings for what track chairs can and cannot change. My recommendation is to let them change what they want, insofar as possible. If you trust them to run the track, you trust them to configure EasyChair properly. This will save the superchair a lot of hassle.  
  * **TIP**: Once the multi-track instance is up, you should also set the email aliases for the corresponding track chairs, so. e.g.,  [iswc20XX-research@easychair.org](mailto:iswc20XX-research@easychair.org) reaches the correct people. (I also set up a ghost track for an [iswc20XX-contact@easychair.org](mailto:iswc20XX-contact@easychair.org) email to which I added myself as GC, the LC, and a couple of others to help with general questions about the conference). You may or may not want to add yourself to receive emails to these tracks.  
  * **TIP**: Some aspects can only be defined by a superchair. For this reason it’s a good idea to assign another superchair in case you are not available. This might be, for example, a Research Track chair (or both) if they do not plan to submit something via the EasyChair instance (or can be trusted not to look at stuff they are not supposed to).  
  * **TIP**: Be sure that track chairs review submission forms before the system is opened to submissions. Only the superchairs can edit the submission forms.  
  * **TIP**: One aspect requiring coordination is the review forms. You must define a set of review questions at the conference level, where for each track, you can then choose which questions to list, and in which order. Only a superchair can do this, and it requires significant coordination, so be sure to keep this in mind that a superchair needs to share the respective form with the respective chairs, and to adapt it as necessary. (The good news is that the review forms from previous years are already set up, and should require only minor-ish changes in general to suit the needs of the current year’s track chairs.) Decision options (ACCEPT/Accept/…/Reject/REJECT, etc.) work the same (only configurable at the conference level), but the standard set of options should mostly be fine.  
* You will need to then coordinate all of the Track Chairs to propose submission, review, etc., dates, and make sure these interleave relatively well (for example, that P\&D submissions are a couple of weeks after Main Track notifications to perhaps capture some reject submissions or demos of accepted papers). Main tracks typically share the same dates, so you will need them to coordinate and agree.  
* Once the dates are set (needed to let the PC/SPC know what dates they are needed in the invite), push Track Chairs to invite PC relatively early, and try to get the PC published on the homepage relatively early (as this can help to encourage submissions). Be sure that the PC has a chance to edit/update their name, affiliation, and country.  
* Push Track Chairs to get the calls published as early as possible on the website, and get the Web/Publicity chairs to share on social media, etc.  
* You should also start to consider invites for keynote speakers while things are quiet. It is typical to try to balance industry/academia, core SW/related areas, as well as gender and geography. Typically their travel costs will be covered (economy flights, registration, hotel), though you may want to double-check this with the Local Chair(s). Push Panel chairs to also think about topics and panelists (whose costs are not typically covered). Note that SWSA expects you to run candidate speakers by them before inviting them.  
  * **TIP**: Of course, you might want to avoid inviting someone who has already given an ISWC keynote, or a recent ESWC keynote (as you wish). [This spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/169mThBN6U09JvH_cILnV5rih2WIJz3kClfV4kXJeick/edit?usp=sharing) might help. (And please extend it for future years.)  
* Around the time of the deadlines for the main tracks is a good time to think about ensuring that Sponsor Chairs are contacting sponsors, and getting agreements. First, they need to agree on Sponsor Levels (silver, gold, diamond, etc.) and the prices/perks associated. Then they need to start contacting companies based on emails/contacts shared from last year’s chairs.
